
THE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY
Domestic households are pressed with a daily need for energy. Food is a basic necessity - simply put - people can not do without food. To put it in perspective people can not do without energy that support preparation/cooking of food at domestic and industrial use. Rising costs of electricity have seen people switch to liquid petroleum as the preferred alternative.
I will be a preferred LP gas reseller in that I offer customers quality and reliability. I also welcome all forms of payment legal tender in Zimbabwe. Cash, all mobile platforms EcoCash, OneMoney and TeleCash plus swipe. Swipe, OneMoney and TeleCash is not not normally acceptable with a number of other of competing gas kiosks. I propose to avail the zipit platform to appeal to all people across the market divide. Bulk informal players as well as all bankable customers.

INDUSTRY ANALYSIS
Factors for success in the LP Gas resell industry 
•	Good customer care
•	Quality of the product
•	Reliable opening and closing times. In short professionalism even in contact with customers and staff.
•	Staff motivation: reasonable remuneration on time, protective clothing and servicing the machinery.
•	Power back up up an running such as solar and batteries
•	Marketing: banner with an arrow pointing distance and arrow to the kiosk
•	Timely information dissemination on the available social media platforms and internet (price changes, availability of product and some)
•	Affordability of the product

Main Competitor
•	Quality Gas for domestic consumers
•	Boc Gas for industrial gas needs

TARGET MARKET
Household market segment
Normally buy gas for home domestic use requirements. Buying from gas tanks ranging from 2kgs normally to a maximum of 48kg. This is the major market contributing an expected 95% of marke share and volume. Normally expect small and repeat purchase of gas from these many customers with an average demand of 3kg LP Gas. Majority walk in customers who consider proximity to the gas as a factor and so the need for my kiosk to be situated where there is a reasonable catchment area. There is also a good number of domestic consumers who drive through. I may consider to offer a wing for drive through customers they way they do for KFC customers. These type of customers normally want to buy quantities of 10kg+. Time is of essence to them and so you wouldn't want to delay them. By every means I try to add hands on busy periods though this segment might welcome waiting a bit in the queue.
Industrial Customers
You are looking at SMEs; normally restaurants and fast foods takeaways. They buy in bulk of say 50kg+. There must be a workmen who switch to attend to their needs. Time is of great essence and as such they are guaranteed to be served separately all 50kg+ buyers.

COMPANY DESCRIPTION
Founding date
June 18, 2014
Location
193 Munhondo Road; Ruwa Industrial Area, Ruwa
Mission statement
Become one of a Zuva renowned and leading LP Gas reseller in Zimbabwe by volume and market share in Zimbabwe
Type of Organization
PBC (Private Business Corporation)
Core strength
Professionalism, Innovation, Safety, Integrity
Main leadership
Non Executive Director (Tinanshe. L Kanyayi)
Operations Director (Jonathan Murwira)

IMPLEMENTATION TIMELINES

Phase 1: First Month     Phase 2: Second Month     Phase 3: Third Month

Phase 1
The first month of the roll out comprise of seeking negotiations for space with the owners. Invite Zuva SHE personel for inspection and recommendations. Draft and signing of the lease agreement. This paves way for application of licences from the City Council and any other interested regulatory board like city Heath and or REA.

Phase 2
Second month has to do with working on the structure. Buy the steel, the roofing sheets, infact all building material that meet Zuva standard. Hire of builder, welder and painter to construct the kiosk and finish up. Advertising for staff to man the kiosk in the press. 3 altogether (2 male and 1 female Attendant) plus 2 private security guards. Sending the three Attendants to Zuva for training. Buying other support Equipment such as a digital scale, fire extinguishers. Finishing up everything and sprousing up the looks. Zuva SHE to come and make a final inspection and declare kiosk ready for serving the public. A mock serving clients with everything in place and testing the all and all checks. Procuring uniforms for all staff. Management and staff is satisfied they are ready to serve the customers. 

Phase 3
Grant opening, doors open to the public and we start serving our customers.


MARKETING PLAN
Methods I will use to acquire new customers
Advertising
A week before opening when the set-up is all in place. Will cover  the structure/kiosk then put posters specifying the exact date for the grand opening. Stick the same posters to the noticeboard for the buildings like schools, clinics and supermarkets within the 10km radius to notify potential customers of the grand opening plus the name Zuva Gas that they are familiar with already.
Advertising on the social media platforms and the classifieds. Informative advertising whereby the location for the gas kiosk is specified plus the price for Gas gazetted in advance to allow for planning. Create a WhatsApp Group and a Facebook page that will be monitored and updated by an Administrator. Share the page in other local FB pages and leave it open for likes and reviews for feedback. Constantly attending to customer queries and suggestions and providing feedback.
Erect a directional poster from the main road with the Zuva Gas sign and colour to direct motorists and any other passerby potential buyers from the main road. 
The first day of opening: to drive in a car with a microphone driving within the radius residential area and business premises. Advise people about the new Zuva Gas that has just been opened plus operating time and price for the LP Gas per kg. Advise customers on all payment platforms available.
Why target market will prefer my product/service in relation to another option
•	After sales service like tidy up yard and greens to give an aesthetic appearance
•	Run promotional programmes to encourage loyalty and gain new customers. For example for every 3rd purchase of 5kg+ gas purchase you get a kg for free on your 4th purchase of 5kg+
•	Accepting and availing all payment platforms.


FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Cost Structures
Fixed Cost: Rentals, franchise costs, city licences
Variable Cost: Wages and salaries, electricity, water, service and repairs

Income streams for the business
The kiosk is expected to receive an average 20by 48kg Gas tanks = 960kg 
#	LP Gas for resale I'm sinc with the carrying capacity of the standard kiosk

Retail price by Zuva Service Station = ZWL46.00/kg
#	Zuva is in business. It has grown big and enjoys economies of scale. It arrives at that going price obviously after factoring cost plus profit.

Zuva Gas Reseller = ZWL55.00/kg
#	It allows for factoring in franchise fees and other costs at a business unit level plus profit. The going price is still reasonable considering some competitors like Petrotrade Gas is going for over ZWL70.00/kg. 
#	Profit

Breaking even and registering a profit is a game of pushing volumes and sales. It is very possible. Let us work with a hypothetical and yet practicable situation. After all costs let us say:
•	You earn ZW2 profit per every kg of LP gas sold = 2*960kgs
                                                                                                          ZWL1,920.00 per delivery
•	USD38 equivalent by black market rates and double at the bank rate of 25
•	Average of 2 loads per week: Monthly Revenue Forecast = 38*8
  
                                                                                                       USD304.00
Market Potential
The 4 proposed areas are high population density areas plus easily accessible by road network. A minimum of 2000 household in the 10km radius. In addition to the advertisement that is going to lure customers from distant neighborhood still in Harare. Those that can drive or board transport to come for my LP Zuva Has and special service.


FUNDING REQUIRED
Investment : USD4000.00 (four thousand united states dollars)
The amount and or equivalent is good enough to get us started on the project. The structure is standardized as such no shortcuts because there is need to meet safety requirements. The figure is the average inquiring with other Zuva Gas Retailers. A plus or minus around that figure is enough.


Proposed cost breakdown
Lease Agreement; Construction Material, Builder, Welder and Painter, hiring to private guards plus 3 gas Attendants, digital scale, a pump, franchise fees, council licence fees, protective wear for staff all staff, training for gas Attendants, advertising and promotional budget. Wages and salaries for the first month. Working capital backup for some unforeseen expenses. Receipts will be provided for and all payments of above USD100 will go through after approval by the directors.


